A. ***
B. Per-cell quality control
Strict quality control (QC) of scATAC-seq data is essential to remove the contribution of low-quality cells. In ArchR, we will consider three
characteristics of the data:

1. The number of unique nuclear fragments (i.e. not mapping to mitochondrial DNA). 
2. The signal-to-background ratio; low signal-to-background ratio is often attributed to dead or dying cells which have de-chromatinized DNA which
allows for random transposition events genome-wide.
3. The fragment size distribution. Due to nucleosomal periodicity, we expect to see depletion of fragments that are the length of DNA wrapped
around a nucleosome (~147 bp).

The first metric, unique nuclear fragments, is relatively straightforward-- cells with very few usable fragments will not provide enough data
to make useful interpretations and should therefore be excluded. The second metric, signal-to-background ratio, is calculated as the TSS enrichment
score. Recall that the TSS enrichment score, or Transcription Start Site Enrichment Score calculation is a signal to noise calculation.
Traditional bulk ATAC-seq analysis has used this TSS enrichmnet score as part of standard workflow for the determination of signal-to-background.
The TSS enrichment score essentially acts as a representative across the majority of cell types tested in both bulk ATAC-seq and scATAC-seq.
The primary idea of the TSS enrichment score metric is that ATAC-seq data is universally enriched at gene TSS regions compared to other genomic
regions, due to large protein complexes that bind to promoters. By looking at per-basepair accessibility centered at these TSS regions, we see a
local enrichment relative to flanking regions (1900-2000 bp distal in both directions). The ratio between the peak of this enrichment (centered at
the TSS) relative to these flanking regions represents the TSS enrichment score. Traditionally, the per-base-pair accessibility is computed for
each bulk ATAC-seq sample and then this profile is utilized to determine the TSS enrichment score. Performing this operation on a per-cell basis
in scATAC-seq is relatively slower and computationally exhaustive/expensive. To accurately approximate the TSS enrichment score per single cell,
we will count the average accessibility within a 50-bp region centered at each single-base TSS potiion and divide this by the average accessibility
of the TSS flanking positions (+/- 1900 - 2000 bp). This approximation is highly correlated (R > 0.99) with the original method and values are
close in magnitude. The third metric, fragment size distribution, is generally less important but good to manually inspect. Due to the mannerisms
in which DNA wraps around nucleosomes, we expect to see a nucleosomal periodicity in the distribution of fragment sizes in our data. These hills
and valleys appear because fragments must span 0, 1, 2, etc. nucleosomes (Tn5 cannot cut DNA that is tightly wrapped around a nucleosome).
By default in ArchR, pass-filter cells are identified as those cells having a TSS enrichment score greater than 4 and more than 1000 unique nuclear
fragments. It is important to note that the actual numerica value of the TSS enrichment score depends on the set of TSSs used. The default value in
ArchR were designed for human data and it may be important to change the default thresholds when running createArrowFiles().


C. Doublet inference with ArchR
By default, ArchR utilizes the doublet parameters described in the ArchR manuscript. In ArchR, doublet removal is performed in
a single step using addDoubletScore(). This adds the inferred doublet scores to each Arrow file and will take approximately 2-5 minutes per sample.
For each sample in the ArrowFiles or ArchRProject provided, this function will independently assign inferred doublet information to each cell.
This allows for removing strong heterotypic doublet-based clusters downstream. A doublet results from a droplet that contains two cells, causing the
ATAC-seq data to be a mixture of the signal from each cell. 

ArchR reports the R^2 value for the UMAP projection for each Arrow file. If these R^2 values are much lower (i.e. less than 0.90), this often indiates that the cells within the Arrow file have little heterogeneity. This makes the accuracy of doublet calling worse because the majority of doublets would be "homotypic" -
or a single droplet with two very similar cells. In these cases, *skip doublet prediction. Alternatively, one can set knnMethod = "LSI" and force = TRUE in order
to perform projection in the LSI (Latent semantic indexing) method. Adding doublet scores will create plots in the "QualityControl" directory; there are 3 plots associated with each of your samples in this particular folder:
- Doublet Enrichments: These represent the enrichment of simulated doublets nearby each single cell compared to the expected if we assume a uniform distribution. 
- Doublet Scores: These represent the significance (-log10(binomial adjusted p-value)) of simulated doublets nearby each single cell compared to the expected if we assume a uniform distribution. This value is reportedly less consistent than the doublet enrichments and therefore use doublet enrichments for doublet identification.
- Doublet Density: This represents the density of the simulated of the simulated doublet projections. This allows one to visualize where the synthetic doublets were located after projection into the 2-dimensional embedding.


D. Creating an ArchRProject

E. Dimensionality reduction with ArchR

F. Clustering with ArchR

G. Single-cell embeddings




